I came to Ruby by way of Perl.

  The Perl archipelligo, Wall Island, Chiristiansen, Schwartz, Conway

* gasp *

I started with Perl 4 in order to customize the installation of Windows NT so
that it could be automated.

This involved heavy use of regular expressions.

  Mom: "Bobby, we need to talk"
       "What's is Mom?"                  : Bobby
  Mom: "A freiend's mother said
        other kids at school
        have been expeirmenting
        with the regexes..."
       "It's no big deal Mom, they're    : Bobby
        just =~ /(posix|pcre)/ims"
  Mom: "OMG, you're taking the regex!"

Why regexes?

  Some people, when confronted with a problem, think "I know, I'll use regular
  expressions." Now they have two problems.  

     -- Jamie Zawinski

Regexes are a key that unlocks data

  Find/Comission a graphic of a key-shaped word 'regex' and the word 'data' shaped
  as an old style padlock (where the key goes in the front/middle)?

When I worked at Health Market Science, Ben Kennedy and I were asked to help
out our data delivery department with a client job that was taking at the time
about 48hrs to process.

During that time we happened upon the idea of a suite of command line tools and
a library which abstracted away file encodings and how tables of data were to
be represnted.  

Some clients wanted tab files, some csv, some pipe delimited, some Excel and
others MS Access databse files.

The other idea that we stumbled upon was to use a URL to represent both the
location of the table's data and its encoding.  This meant the command line utilities and the libraries coudl be written to 

  Picture(s):
    URI: Yuri Gregarin
    URL: the Ural Mountains
